on that day they read from the book of
Moses in the hearing of the people and
in it was found written that no ammonite
or Moabites should ever come into the
Assembly of God because they had not met
the children of Israel with bread and
water but hired Balaam against them to
curse them
however our God turned the curse into a
blessing so it was when they had heard
the law that they separated all the
mixed multitude from Israel now before
this Elijah cheb the priests having
authority over the storerooms of the
house of our God was allied with Tobiah
and he had prepared for him a large room
where previously they had stored the
grain offerings the frankincense the
articles the tides of grain the new wine
and oil which were commanded to be given
to the Levites and singers and
gatekeepers and the offerings for the
priests but during all this I was not in
Jerusalem for in the 32nd year of
artaxerxes king of Babylon I had
returned to the king then after certain
days I obtained leave from the king and
I came to Jerusalem and discovered the
evil that a liar ship had done for
Tobiah and preparing a room for him in
the courts of the house of God and it
grieved me bitterly therefore I threw
all the household goods of Tobiah out of
the room then I commanded them to
cleanse the rooms and I brought back
into them the articles of the house of
God with the grain offering and the
frankincense I also realized that the
portions for the Levites had not been
given them for each of the Levites and
the singers who did the work had gone
back to his field
so I contended with the rulers and said
why is the house of God forsaken and I
gathered them together and set them in
their place then all Judah brought the
tide of the grain in the new
and the oil to the storehouse and I
appointed his treasures over the
storehouse shal Amaya the priest and
Zadok describe and of the Levites
Padilla and next to them was Hainan the
son of Zakhar the son of mattaniah for
they were considered faithful and their
task was to distribute to their brethren
remember me oh my god concerning this
and do not wipe out my good deeds that I
have done for the house of my god and
for its services in those days I saw
people in Judah treading wine presses on
the Sabbath and bringing in sheaves and
loading donkeys with wine grapes figs
and all kinds of burdens which they
brought into Jerusalem on the Sabbath
day and I warned them about the day on
which they were selling provisions men
of Tyre dwelt there also who brought in
fish in all kinds of goods and sold them
on the Sabbath to the children of Judah
and in Jerusalem then I contended with
the nobles of Judah and said to them
what evil thing is this that you do by
which you profane the Sabbath day did
not your fathers do thus and did not our
God bring all this disaster on us and on
this city yet you bring added wrath on
Israel by profaning the Sabbath so it
was at the gates of Jerusalem as it
began to be dark before the Sabbath that
I commanded the gates to be shut and
charged that they must not be open till
after the Sabbath then I posted some of
my servants at the gates so that no
burdens would be brought in on the
Sabbath day
now the merchants and sellers of all
kinds of wares lodged outside Jerusalem
once or twice then I warned them and
said to them why do you spend the night
around the wall if you do so again I
will lay hands on you
from that time on they came no more on
the Sabbath and I commanded the Levites
that they should cleanse themselves and
that they should go and guard the gates
to sanctify the Sabbath day remember me
oh my god concerning this also and spare
me according to the greatness of your
mercy in those days I also saw Jews who
had married women of Ashdod Ammon and
Moab and half of their children spoke
the language of Ashdod and could not
speak the language of Judah but spoke
according to the language of one or the
other people so I contended with them
and cursed them struck some of them and
pulled out their hair and made them
swear by God saying you shall not give
your daughters as wives to their sons
nor take their daughters for your sons
or yourselves did not Solomon king of
Israel sinned by these things yet among
many nations there was no king like him
who was beloved of his God and God made
him king over all Israel nevertheless
pagan women caused even him to sin
should we then hear of your doing all
this great evil transgressing against
our God by marrying pagan women and one
of the sons of Judah the son of Elijah
the high priest was a son-in-law of
Sanballat the horror night
therefore I drove him from me
remember them oh my god because they
have defiled the priesthood and the
Covenant of the priesthood and the
Levites thus I cleanse them of
everything pagan I also assigned duties
to the priests and the Levites each to
his service and to bringing the wood
offering and the first fruits at
appointed times remember me oh my god
for good
[Music]